Hello World

1. Assuming good intention requires organizational fairness
We've been told to assume good intentions by many good leaders. 
I still believe it's a good principle because as human beings it's almost impossible 
to live with with basic assumption of people around us are inhererently bad.
It doesn't help with our psychological well-being. 
It creates pessimistic world view and makes problem more complex than it is. 

And also we have Hanlon's razor which states that "Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity." 
Although, in this post-modern world, it doesn't sound politically correct but it still holds true.

Anyways, on the field what you will observation is different. People are not always acting with good intentions. 
Power dynamics and conflicts of interest are real deal. Especially, when people are pushed out of their comfort zone
they tend to remove the stressor factor which is usually the person who is challenging that comfort zone. 
Don't take the challenger as someone who's manager or someone with authority. It can be a high performer, a person who's not afraid of speaking up 
or challenging existing norms or a person who's not afraid of taking risks, or someone who's not afraid of being wrong etc.

Basically someone shines within the herd gets punched. 
And, not interestingly we have multiple names for it which is "Black Sheep", "Tall Poppy Syndrome",  "Crab Mentality" etc.

One example that shocked me was a person who was a high-performer with many appraisals 
from his peers and managers started to get attacked after first performance review cycle. 
In his performance reviews he received great feedbacks and he was told that he's absolutely crushing his role.

After a performance review cycle, everything started to go south. And, he started to be criticized by his manager interestingly. 
His manager started to say that he can't receive feedback, he has confrontational communication style, not time-conscious etc. 
None of them were in the first 360 performance review which is obviously interesting and another data point. Afterwards his manager carefully 
crafted his words to HR and upper-management, and somehow situation ended up with initiating another 360 review cycle after 1 month of his performance review. 
And, obviously, I was like what the fuck is going on?
 
So, we started to dig more.

And, first thing we noticed is that issue started with 3 things:

- The guy is very capable of his work and works in very data-savvy way. Gives estimations based on data and uses secondary metrics to adjust it. 
- He's applying scrum rules diligently, such as applying DoR's, collective refinement, setting scrum goal etc.
If it's not being applied, for example, he asks for it and not being afraid to challenge status-quo.
- He can easily admit failure even team members think opposite way. 
- He's good at planning work as he opened the almost ~50 percent of the tickets and completed ~%50 of the spike.
- He has very good eyes for ethical concerns. He's very comfortable to go against "underpromise and over deliver" 
philosophy of his managers and can initiate workshops that proves his point.
- He received in the last 360 feedback. He's approachable, honest, hardworking guy.

- Most of the employees in company decides what to work on by 









At this stage, it's 


Especially when it comes to visibility and recognition, 


1. Mid-level managers are cunning
2. Juniors are prone to groupthinking
3. Data-savynnes doesn't work
4. Most of the product managers are incompetent
5. Challenging status-quo always lead bad results
6. Principles are undermined collectively
7. Scapegoating is a common practice
8. Most of the people are not capable of thinking critically
9. Perceptions can easily be manipulated by higher-ups
